=== BERTScore 최적화 특화 예시 (완전판) ===

예시 1 (BERTScore 특화점수: 41, 유형: ct_head)
FINDINGS: There is enhancing right frontal extra-axial mass measuring 5.1 cm TV x 4.8 cm
AP x 4.3 cm SI demonstrating isointense T1 and hyperintense T2/FLAIR signal
abnormality with areas of subtle hypointense GRE signal along the periphery,
likely representing calcifications seen on prior CT.  There is enhancement and
thickening of the adjacent dura (900:117).  There are prominent vascular
structures along the inferior margin of the mass (900:93) suggestive of
neovascularity, potentially arising from the middle meningeal artery.  There
is mild surrounding vasogenic edema with 1 mm leftward midline shift.  There
is no additional enhancing mass or abnormal enhancement.

There is no evidence of acute infarction or intracranial hemorrhage. There is
mild age-related diffuse parenchymal volume loss.  There are a few nonspecific
periventricular and subcortical FLAIR hyperintensities which may be a sequela
of chronic small vessel ischemic disease in a patient of this age.  The major
visualized arterial vascular flow voids are preserved.  The dural venous
sinuses appear patent on the postcontrast MPRAGE images.

There is mild mucosal thickening of bilateral ethmoid air cells and left
maxillary sinus.  There is a tiny right maxillary sinus mucosal retention
cyst.  The bilateral mastoid air cells appear clear.  The orbits appear
unremarkable.  The visualized soft tissues appear unremarkable.
IMPRESSION: 1. Enhancing right frontal extra-axial mass compatible with meningioma with
adjacent neovascularity, dural thickening enhancement, and mild surrounding
vasogenic edema resulting in 1 mm leftward midline shift.
2. No additional enhancing mass or abnormal enhancement.
3. No evidence of acute infarction or intracranial hemorrhage.
4. Mild age-related diffuse parenchymal volume loss with nonspecific white
matter signal abnormality, likely a sequela of chronic small vessel ischemic
disease.
5. Mild paranasal sinus disease, as above.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

예시 2 (BERTScore 특화점수: 40, 유형: chest)
FINDINGS: CT HEAD WITHOUT CONTRAST:
Acute intraventricular hemorrhage is seen extending from the body, frontal,
occipital, and temporal horns left lateral ventricle to the third ventricle
and fourth ventricle.  Increased density is seen within the right lateral
ventricle, also concerning for intraventricular hemorrhage, series 3, image
18.  Ventricles and sulci are prominent.

Encephalomalacia with ex vacuo dilatation is seen involving the right
posterior parietal lobe, and medial aspects of the right occipital lobe,
consistent with a chronic infarct.  Additional areas of hypodensity within the
right parieto-occipital and temporal lobes, is consistent with infarction of
indeterminate chronicity.  Periventricular and deep subcortical white matter
hypodensities are likely sequelae of chronic small vessel ischemic disease. 
The visualized paranasal sinuses, mastoid air cells, and middle ear cavities
are clear.  The globes are unremarkable.

CTA HEAD:
Moderate atherosclerotic calcifications are seen along the cavernous segment
of the left internal carotid artery.  There is attenuation of the left MCA and
its distal branches, with minimally preserved flow.  The right internal
carotid artery demonstrates moderate to severe stenosis secondary to
atherosclerotic calcification along the cavernous segment of the right
internal carotid artery.  The M1 and M2 segments of the right middle cerebral
artery are not well seen, however there appears to be minimal flow within the
distal segments of the right middle cerebral artery.

CTA NECK:
Hard and soft atherosclerotic plaque is seen along the origins of the great
vessels as well as the aortic arch.  Extensive atherosclerotic calcification
is seen along the right carotid bifurcation, with 40% stenosis of the right
internal carotid artery.  The left common carotid artery is unremarkable.  The
left internal carotid artery demonstrates moderate hard and soft
atherosclerotic plaque, with at least 60% stenosis by NASCET criteria.  The
left vertebral artery is occluded proximally the approximately 1 cm distal to
its origin and reconstitutes at C4, with severely attenuated flow along the V3
segments of the left vertebral artery.  Improved flow is seen within the V4
segment of the left vertebral artery, likely secondary to collaterals.  The
right vertebral artery is unremarkable.  The anterior cerebral arteries are
unremarkable.  The left PCA is normal.  Asymmetrically decreased flow seen
within the P1 segment of the right posterior cerebral artery.  No definite
flow is seen in the remainder segments of the right posterior cerebral artery.

OTHER:
The thyroid is normal.  There is no cervical lymphadenopathy.  A moderate
effusion is seen within the right lung apex.  Mild interstitial thickening is
seen involving the left lung apices, which may be secondary to pulmonary
edema.
IMPRESSION: 1. Hypodensity within the right parieto-occipital and temporal lobes is seen,
consistent with an infarction of indeterminate chronicity.  Please note MRI of
the brain is more sensitive for the detection of acute infarct.
2. Large left greater than right intraventricular hemorrhage is seen extending
from the body, frontal, occipital, and temporal horns of the left lateral
ventricle to the third ventricle and fourth ventricle.
3. Complete occlusion is seen involving the left vertebral artery, 1 cm distal
to its origin, with minimal reconstitution at the level of C4 and severely
attenuated flow along the V3 segment.
4. Attenuated flow is seen within the P1 segment of the right posterior
cerebral artery, with absence of flow within the distal right PCA, concerning
for occlusion.
5. No definite flow is seen within the M1 and M2 segments of the right middle
cerebral artery which may be occluded, however with attenuated arborization of
the distal right MCA vessels likely secondary to collateralization.
6. Attenuated flow within the left middle cerebral artery, may be secondary to
vasospasm.
7. Moderate right pleural effusion.  Mild pulmonary edema.
8. 40% stenosis of the right internal carotid artery by NASCET criteria.  At
least 60% stenosis of the left internal carotid artery by NASCET criteria.
9. Likely chronic infarction involving the medial aspect of the right
occipital lobe.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

예시 3 (BERTScore 특화점수: 36, 유형: ct_head)
FINDINGS: MR BRAIN: There is a subcortical 'bubbly' T2/FLAIR hyperintense lesion within
the left frontal lobe measuring 3.8 cm TV x 2.2 cm AP x 1.6 cm SI
demonstrating subtle slow diffusion with punctate focus of susceptibility
artifact medially related to calcification or hemorrhage.  The FLAIR
hyperintensities confined within the lesion without surrounding edema or
significant mass effect.  There is mild mass effect on the gyrus.

The ventricles are normal in size.  There is no evidence of infarction or
hemorrhage.  There is no mass effect or midline shift.  There is mild mucosal
thickening of bilateral ethmoid air cells and maxillary sinuses.  The
bilateral mastoid air cells appear clear.  The major intracranial flow voids
are preserved.

ASL Perfusion: There is a 4 mm focus of increased perfusion along the
anteromedial aspect of the lesion, demonstrating similar signal to the cortex
(series 4, image 17).

MR Spectroscopy: There is nonspecific spectroscopy pattern within the left
frontal lobe, without definite abnormal choline to NAA or choline to
creatinine ratio on single voxel spectroscopy.  On multi voxel spectroscopy,
there is paucity of metabolites along the cystic portions of the lesion on
voxel is 5, 6, 7, 12, 13, 14, 20 and 21.  A few of these voxels demonstrates
mildly increased choline to NAA ratio although none demonstrates ratio greater
than 0.8.
IMPRESSION: 1. Cortically based 'bubbly' left frontal lobe lesion with associated punctate
focus of gradient echo susceptibility hypointensity, which may represent
calcification although hemorrhage is not excluded, without surrounding edema
or significant mass effect.  These imaging characteristics are most suggestive
of underlying DNET (dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor).  Differential
considerations include ganglioglioma or oligodendroglioma although these do
not usually demonstrate a "bubbly' appearance or other low-grade glioma.
2. 4 mm focus of increased perfusion along the anteromedial aspect of the
lesion, demonstrating similar signal to the cortex.  There is overall paucity
of metabolites centered within the lesion, potentially representing cystic
nature of the lesion, with a few voxel is demonstrating mildly increased
choline to NAA ratio although none is greater than 0.8.
3. No evidence of acute infarction or hemorrhage.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

예시 4 (BERTScore 특화점수: 35, 유형: ct_head)
FINDINGS: Overlying the right frontal and parietal lobes is a 4 mm thin extra-axial rim
of fluid which is iso-to slightly dense that likely represents a chronic
subdural hematoma.  A similar finding was noted in the ___
noncontrast head CT at which point it measured 4.9 mm in maximum thickness. 
No additional intracranial hemorrhage is seen.  There is no midline shift. 
Differentiation of gray and white matter is preserved. There is prominence of
the ventricles and sulci suggestive of involutional changes.

Mild thickening of the right preseptal/periorbital soft tissues may reflect
the site of recent head strike.  There is no underlying acute fracture.  There
is no evidence of retrobulbar hematoma.  Globes intact.

There is mild mucosal thickening of the right maxillary sinus and partial
opacification of the left mastoid air cells.  The visualized portion of the
remainder of the paranasal sinuses, mastoid air cells, and middle ear cavities
are clear.
IMPRESSION: 1. Small extra-axial fluid collection overlying the right cerebral hemisphere,
likely a chronic subdural hematoma without midline shift, similar in
appearance to that seen in ___.
2. No acute intracranial process or acute hemorrhage otherwise noted.
3. Mild right periorbital soft tissue swelling.  No fracture.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

예시 5 (BERTScore 특화점수: 35, 유형: ct_head)
FINDINGS: 1 cm late acute right thalamic infarct (series 6, image 16) is identified.  No
evidence of hemorrhagic transformation.  There are very mild periventricular
and subcortical scattered T2/FLAIR white matter hyperintensities, nonspecific,
but compatible with chronic microangiopathy in a patient this age.  The sulci,
ventricles and cisterns are within expected limits for the degree of mild
senescent related global cerebral volume loss.

There is a well-circumscribed right parietal 4.1 by 1.9 cm (TRV, AP)
extra-axial dural-based lesion compatible with a calcified meningioma,
exerting minimal mass effect on the underlying brain parenchyma.  No evidence
of associated parenchymal FLAIR hyperintense edema pattern.  No other
intracranial mass lesions are identified.

The major intracranial flow voids are preserved.  The dural venous sinuses are
patent.  The paranasal sinuses are essentially clear.  The orbits are
unremarkable.  The mastoid air cells appear clear.  No suspicious osseous
signal.
IMPRESSION: 1. Late acute right thalamic infarct without evidence of hemorrhagic
transformation.
2. Right parietal 4.1 cm calcified meningioma, with mild mass effect on the
underlying brain parenchyma.  No evidence of associated parenchymal FLAIR
hyperintense edema pattern.
3. Additional findings described above.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

예시 6 (BERTScore 특화점수: 34, 유형: chest)
FINDINGS: Motion, surgical hardware, dental amalgam streak artifactand patient body
habitus limits study.

CT HEAD WITHOUT CONTRAST:
There are hemorrhagic contusions in the bilateral inferior frontal lobes and
left anterior temporal lobe with surrounding vasogenic edema. There is an
acute subdural hematoma overlying the left frontoparietal convexity.  There
are hyperdense blood products consistent with traumatic subarachnoid
hemorrhage in the sulci of the bilateral frontal lobes (2:24),
interhemispheric fissure (2:22) and left parietal lobe posteriorly (2:26).
There is an acute subdural hematoma in the interhemispheric fissure
surrounding the posterior falx. There are multiple foci of pneumocephalus
overlying the left frontal convexity, left frontal lobe (2:24) and at the
vertex. There is mild effacement of the frontal horn of the left lateral
ventricle. There is no midline shift. The basal cisterns are patent. There is
no intraventricular blood.

There is a fracture of the left frontal bone with a linearly oriented fracture
line extending from the bregma anteriorly towards the left (2:30).  There is a
fracture line that extends from the skull vertex posterolaterally through the
right parietal bone.  Additionally, there is a fracture line that extends
posterolaterally along the midline, towards the right occipital bone.

There is a mildly depressed calvarial fracture of the left parietal bone
posterior to the vertex.  There is an extra-axial collection of blood
superficial to the dura underlying the depressed skull fracture, with inferior
displacement of the superior sagittal sinus, consistent with a venous epidural
hematoma. There is no evidence of active extravasation of contrast into the
hematoma.

There is a hematoma overlying the left temporal scalp. There is a subgaleal
hematoma overlying the scalp vertex.

Small amount of fluid partially opacifying the left mastoid air cells. 
Question chronic right lamina papyracea fracture versus volume averaging
artifact (see 4:235).  The adjacent ethmoid air cells are grossly clear.  Left
sphenoid sinus small air-fluid levels noted.  The visualized portion of the
mastoid air cells, and middle ear cavities are otherwise clear. The visualized
portions of the orbits are normal.  No evidence of a retrobulbar hematoma.

CTA HEAD:
 Nonocclusive atherosclerotic narrowing of the cavernous and supraclinoid
segments of the bilateral internal carotid arteries are seen.

Otherwise, the vessels of the circle of ___ and their principal
intracranial branches appear preserved without stenosis, occlusion, or
aneurysm.  There is redemonstration of the venous epidural hematoma
superficial to the posterior aspect of the superior sagittal sinus.  The dural
venous sinuses are patent.

CTA NECK:
There is atherosclerotic calcification of the aortic arch and proximal left
subclavian artery without stenosis.  Bilateral carotid and vertebral artery
origins are patent.  Minimal nonocclusive partially calcified probable
atherosclerotic changes of bilateral carotid bifurcations are noted.  There is
no evidence of moderate or high-grade internal carotid stenosis by NASCET
criteria. The vertebral arteries and their major branches appear grossly
preserved with no evidence of stenosis, occlusion, or dissection.

CT PERFUSION:
Rapid perfusion maps demonstrate no definite focal CBV or MTT defects. There
is an area of increased MTT in the left anterior temporal lobe and bilateral
inferior frontal lobes with matched areas of decreased blood flow,
corresponding to the areas of hemorrhagic contusion.

CT CERVICAL SPINE:
Alignment is grossly preserved.  There is a linearly oriented lucency through
the right foramen transversarium of C3 with well corticated margins.  There is
no prevertebral edema.  Within limits of study, there is no definite evidence
of acute cervical spine fracture.  No evidence of right vertebral artery
dissection at this level or elsewhere on the CTA.  Vertebral body heights are
preserved.

OTHER:
The visualized portion of the lungs are grossly clear.  The patient is status
post CABG.  Sternotomy wires are seen in the visualized sternum.  The
visualized portion of the thyroid gland is grossly preserved.  There is no
lymphadenopathy by CT size criteria.
IMPRESSION: 1. Limited study as described.
2. Hemorrhagic contusions in the bilateral inferior frontal lobes with
surrounding vasogenic edema.  Acute left subdural hematoma with mild
effacement of the frontal horn of the left lower ventricle.  There is
extension of the subdural to the interhemispheric fissure along the anterior
falx.  Small acute subdural hematoma along the posterior falx.
3. Traumatic subarachnoid hemorrhage with blood seen in the sulci of the
bilateral frontal lobes, parietal lobes and left anterior temporal lobe.
4. Comminuted fracture of the calvarium with a mildly displaced fragment at
the calvarial vertex with an extra-axial collection concerning for venous
epidural hematoma.
5. No evidence of acute large territorial infarction.  Please note MRI of the
brain is more sensitive for the detection of acute infarct.
6.  Nonocclusive atherosclerotic narrowing of circle ___ as described.
7. Otherwise, grossly patent circle of ___.
8.  Nonocclusive cervical arterial atherosclerotic disease as described.
9. Otherwise, grossly patent bilateral cervical carotid and vertebral arteries
without evidence of stenosis, occlusion, or dissection.
10. Question chronic right foramen transversarium fracture versus degenerative
change.  If concern for nondisplaced acute to subacute fracture, consider
cervical spine MRI for further evaluation.
11. No definite acute fracture or traumatic subluxation of the cervical spine.
12.  Additional findings as described above.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

예시 7 (BERTScore 특화점수: 21, 유형: ct_abdomen)
FINDINGS: Study is mildly degraded by motion.

A rounded T2 hyperintense structure in the imaged portions of the inferior
left occipital lobe is presumed to represent the occipital horn of the left
lateral ventricle, although incompletely imaged.

CERVICAL:

There is no evidence for acute vertebral body height loss.  There is
exaggerated kyphotic curve involving the lower cervical and upper thoracic
spine.  Vertebral body heights are preserved. There is no marrow signal
abnormality.

Minimal multilevel degenerative changes are seen throughout the cervical
spine, with multiple posterior disc bulges most prominent at C6-7.  These
result in mild canal narrowing without moderate or severe stenosis. 
Multilevel uncovertebral joint hypertrophy is also seen, most significant at
C6-7 where it is moderate on the right and moderate severe on the left.

THORACIC:
There is exaggeration of the thoracic kyphosis.  Vertebral body heights are
preserved. There is no marrow signal abnormality.

A rounded, T1/T2 hyperintense lesion in the T10 vertebral body demonstrates
loss of signal on fat suppression images, and is compatible with a hemangioma.
There is no focal abnormal bone marrow signal identified.

There is no evidence for moderate severe vertebral canal stenosis or neural
foraminal narrowing within the thoracic spine.

 The visualized portion of the thoracic spinal cord is grossly preserved in
signal and caliber.

LUMBAR:
Vertebral body heights are maintained. Vertebral body alignment is within
normal limits, without evidence for subluxation.  There is no focal abnormal
bone marrow signal.  The conus medullaris terminates at the level of L1.

There is multilevel loss of intervertebral disc height and intrinsic T2
signal.  Additionally, there are mild disc bulges most notable at L3-L4 and
L4-L5.  Spondylitic changes are most notable at L4-L5 with moderate canal
stenosis, mild left and moderate right neural foraminal narrowing.  There is
no severe canal stenosis or neural foraminal narrowing identified.

There is no evidence for abnormal intramedullary, leptomeningeal, or epidural
enhancement. No evidence for epidural collection or abscess.

A T2 hyperintensity extending from the right renal pelvis is presumed a
peripelvic cyst.  The remainder of the visualized paraspinal soft tissues are
grossly unremarkable.
IMPRESSION: 1.  Study is mildly degraded by motion.
2. No evidence for abnormal intramedullary, leptomeningeal, or epidural
enhancement, with no definite evidence of epidural collection or abscess.
3. Mild multilevel background spondylosis of the cervical and lumbar spine, as
above.  No evidence for moderate/severe canal stenosis or severe neural
foraminal narrowing.
4. Exaggerated kyphotic curvature of the lower cervical and upper thoracic
spine.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

예시 8 (BERTScore 특화점수: 19, 유형: ct_abdomen)
FINDINGS: CERVICAL:
Degenerative 2 mm retrolisthesis of C5 on C6 is identified.  Otherwise,
cervical alignment is anatomic.  Vertebral body heights are preserved.  No
evidence of abnormal or disc signal.  No epidural collection.  No prevertebral
collection.  The visualized posterior fossa is unremarkable.  There is no cord
signal abnormality.

C2-C3: No significant spinal canal or neural foraminal narrowing.

C3-C4: Small central protrusion does not significantly narrow the spinal
canal.  Uncovertebral and facet arthropathy results in mild
left-greater-than-right neural foraminal narrowing.

C4-C5: A small central protrusion results in mild spinal canal narrowing. 
Uncovertebral and facet arthropathy results in moderate right and mild left
neural foraminal narrowing.

C5-C6: A central protrusion with thickening of the ligamentum flavum results
in moderate spinal canal narrowing, without remodeling the cord. 
Uncovertebral and facet arthropathy results in likely severe bilateral neural
foraminal narrowing.

C6-C7: Uncovertebral and facet arthropathy results in mild bilateral neural
foraminal narrowing.  A small left eccentric protrusion does not significantly
narrow the spinal canal.

C7-T1: No significant spinal canal or neural foraminal narrowing.

There is T2/STIR hyperintense signal along the level for cervical lymph nodes
(series 6, image 20; series 11, image 21), which may be reactive for
potentially posttraumatic in nature.  Clinical correlation is recommended.

THORACIC:
Alignment is anatomic.Vertebral body and intervertebral disc signal intensity
appear unremarkable.The spinal cord appears normal in caliber and
configuration. There is no evidence of high-grade spinal canal or neural
foraminal narrowing. There is no evidence of infection or neoplasm.  There is
no abnormal enhancement after contrast administration.  No epidural or
prevertebral collection.

LUMBAR:
Stepwise 2 mm retrolisthesis of L 2 on L3 and L3 on L4 is unchanged from
outside hospital examination.  Otherwise, lumbar alignment is anatomic. 
Re-identified is approximately 25% loss of anterior body height of L4, with
mild STIR hyperintense signal compatible with compression fracture.  No
evidence of epidural or prevertebral collection or adenoid disc signal to
suggest discitis osteomyelitis.

Degenerative loss of disc height is moderate to severe spanning L3-L4 through
L5-S1.  Rudimentary S1-S2 disc is identified.  The conus medullaris terminates
at L2 level, within expected limits.  There is no abnormal signal or
enhancement of the terminal cord or cauda equina.

L1-L2 and L2-L3: Small disc bulges does not significantly narrow the spinal
canal.  No significant neural foraminal narrowing.  Facet joint effusions of
the right L2-L3 facet may be posttraumatic or degenerative in nature.

L3-L4: A disc bulge with thickening of the ligamentum flavum results in severe
spinal canal narrowing with buckling of the cauda equina superiorly.  Loss of
disc height and facet arthropathy results in moderate to severe bilateral
neural foraminal narrowing.  Facet joint effusions on the right is identified,
which may be posttraumatic is degenerative in nature.

L4-L5: A small disc bulge results in mild spinal canal narrowing.  There is
crowding of the left subarticular zone contacting but not definitively
posteriorly displacing the traversing nerve root.  Combination with facet
arthropathy and loss of disc height there is at least moderate left and
mild-to-moderate right neural foraminal narrowing.

L5-S1: A disc bulge does not significantly narrow the spinal canal.  There is
crowding of the subarticular zones contacting but not posteriorly displacing
traversing nerve roots.  Loss of disc height and facet arthropathy results in
severe bilateral neural foraminal narrowing.

There is cholelithiasis without evidence of cholecystitis (series 14, image
7).  A simple right renal midpole 3.2 cm cyst is identified.  Infrarenal
abdominal aortic ectasia measuring approximately 3.5 cm can be seen on prior
exam.  Otherwise, evidence of prevertebral or paraspinal collection or other
abnormality.
IMPRESSION: 1. Compression deformity of L4 with approximately 25% loss of anterior
vertebral body height, without epidural or prevertebral collection, adjacent
suspicious disc signal abnormality enhancement or adjacent psoas muscle
enhancement to suggest discitis osteomyelitis.  Findings support traumatic
injury rather than infectious process.
2. At L3-L4, a disc bulge with thickening of the ligamentum flavum results in
severe spinal canal narrowing, with buckling of the cauda equina superiorly.
3. There is severe bilateral L5-S1 neural foraminal narrowing.
4. There is moderate spinal canal narrowing of the C5-C6 level without
evidence of cord signal abnormality.  Severe bilateral neural foraminal
narrowing at this level.
5. There is no high-grade spinal canal or neural foraminal narrowing of the
thoracic spine.
6. There is no abnormal signal or enhancement of the cord or cauda equina.
7. STIR hyperintense signal and inflammatory stranding associated with left
level 4 lymph nodes.  This could be reactive or posttraumatic in nature. 
Clinical correlation is recommended.  This could be further evaluated with CT
neck as indicated.
8. Cholelithiasis without cholecystitis an additional findings as described
above.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

